Type:
[io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.common.BaseBuilder](https://helidon.io/docs/v4/apidocs/io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.common/io/helidon/security/providers/oidc/common/BaseBuilder.html)

# Configuration options

<table>
<caption>Optional configuration options</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>key</th>
<th>type</th>
<th>default value</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><code>audience</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Audience of issued tokens.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>authorization-endpoint-uri</code></p></td>
<td><p>URI</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>URI of an authorization endpoint used
to redirect users to for logging-in.</p>
<p>If not defined, it is obtained from oidcMetadata(Resource), if that
is not defined an attempt is made to use
identityUri(URI)/oauth2/v1/authorize.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>base-scopes</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td><p><code>openid</code></p></td>
<td><p>Configure base scopes. By default, this
is DEFAULT_BASE_SCOPES. If scope has a qualifier, it must be used
here.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>check-audience</code></p></td>
<td><p>boolean</p></td>
<td><p><code>true</code></p></td>
<td><p>Configure audience claim
check.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>client-id</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Client ID as generated by OIDC
server.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>client-secret</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Client secret as generated by OIDC
server. Used to authenticate this application with the server when
requesting JWT based on a code.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>client-timeout-millis</code></p></td>
<td><p>Duration</p></td>
<td><p><code>30000</code></p></td>
<td><p>Timeout of calls using web
client.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>identity-uri</code></p></td>
<td><p>URI</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>URI of the identity server, base used
to retrieve OIDC metadata.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>introspect-endpoint-uri</code></p></td>
<td><p>URI</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Endpoint to use to validate JWT. Either
use this or set signJwk(JwkKeys) or signJwk(Resource).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>issuer</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Issuer of issued tokens.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>oidc-metadata-well-known</code></p></td>
<td><p>boolean</p></td>
<td><p><code>true</code></p></td>
<td><p>If set to true, metadata will be loaded
from default (well known) location, unless it is explicitly defined
using oidc-metadata-resource. If set to false, it would not be loaded
even if oidc-metadata-resource is not defined. In such a case all URIs
must be explicitly defined (e.g. token-endpoint-uri).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>oidc-metadata.resource</code></p></td>
<td><p><a href="../config/io_helidon_common_configurable_Resource.md">Resource</a></p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Resource configuration for OIDC
Metadata containing endpoints to various identity services, as well as
information about the identity server.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>optional-audience</code></p></td>
<td><p>boolean</p></td>
<td><p><code>false</code></p></td>
<td><p>Allow audience claim to be
optional.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>scope-audience</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Audience of the scope required by this
application. This is prefixed to the scope name when requesting scopes
from the identity server. Defaults to empty string.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>server-type</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td><p><code>@default</code></p></td>
<td><p>Configure one of the supported types of
identity servers.</p>
<p>If the type does not have an explicit mapping, a warning is logged
and the default implementation is used.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>sign-jwk.resource</code></p></td>
<td><p><a href="../config/io_helidon_common_configurable_Resource.md">Resource</a></p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A resource pointing to JWK with public
keys of signing certificates used to validate JWT.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>token-endpoint-auth</code></p></td>
<td><p>ClientAuthentication
(CLIENT_SECRET_BASIC, CLIENT_SECRET_POST, CLIENT_SECRET_JWT,
PRIVATE_KEY_JWT, CLIENT_CERTIFICATE, NONE)</p></td>
<td><p><code>CLIENT_SECRET_BASIC</code></p></td>
<td><p>Type of authentication to use when
invoking the token endpoint. Current supported options:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.common.OidcConfig.ClientAuthentication.CLIENT_SECRET_BASIC</p></li>
<li><p>io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.common.OidcConfig.ClientAuthentication.CLIENT_SECRET_POST</p></li>
<li><p>io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.common.OidcConfig.ClientAuthentication.NONE</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Allowed values:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><code>CLIENT_SECRET_BASIC</code>: Clients that have received a
client_secret value from the Authorization Server authenticate with the
Authorization Server in accordance with Section 2.3.1 of OAuth 2.0
[RFC6749] using the HTTP Basic authentication scheme. This is the
default client authentication.</p></li>
<li><p><code>CLIENT_SECRET_POST</code>: Clients that have received a
client_secret value from the Authorization Server, authenticate with the
Authorization Server in accordance with Section 2.3.1 of OAuth 2.0
[RFC6749] by including the Client Credentials in the request
body.</p></li>
<li><p><code>CLIENT_SECRET_JWT</code>: Clients that have received a
client_secret value from the Authorization Server create a JWT using an
HMAC SHA algorithm, such as HMAC SHA-256. The HMAC (Hash-based Message
Authentication Code) is calculated using the octets of the UTF-8
representation of the client_secret as the shared key. The Client
authenticates in accordance with JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth
2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants [OAuth.JWT] and
Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
Authorization Grants [OAuth.Assertions].</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED Claim Values and MAY
contain the following OPTIONAL Claim Values.</p>
<p>Required: <code>iss, sub, aud, jti, exp</code></p>
<p>Optional: <code>iat</code> - <code>PRIVATE_KEY_JWT</code>: Clients
that have registered a public key sign a JWT using that key. The Client
authenticates in accordance with JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth
2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants [OAuth.JWT] and
Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
Authorization Grants [OAuth.Assertions].</p>
<p>The JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED Claim Values and MAY
contain the following OPTIONAL Claim Values.</p>
<p>Required: <code>iss, sub, aud, jti, exp</code></p>
<p>Optional: <code>iat</code> - <code>CLIENT_CERTIFICATE</code>:
Authentication is done via the client certificate used with MTLS. The
Returned access token is bound to this client certificate. The Client
needs to have MTLS enabled for the OIDC. - <code>NONE</code>: The Client
does not authenticate itself at the Token Endpoint, either because it
uses only the Implicit Flow (and so does not use the Token Endpoint) or
because it is a Public Client with no Client Secret or other
authentication mechanism.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>token-endpoint-uri</code></p></td>
<td><p>URI</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>URI of a token endpoint used to obtain
a JWT based on the authentication code. If not defined, it is obtained
from oidcMetadata(Resource), if that is not defined an attempt is made
to use identityUri(URI)/oauth2/v1/token.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>validate-jwt-with-jwk</code></p></td>
<td><p>boolean</p></td>
<td><p><code>true</code></p></td>
<td><p>Use JWK (a set of keys to validate
signatures of JWT) to validate tokens. Use this method when you want to
use default values for JWK or introspection endpoint URI.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
