Http digest authentication security provider

Type:
[io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth.HttpDigestAuthProvider](https://helidon.io/docs/v4/apidocs/io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth/io/helidon/security/providers/httpauth/HttpDigestAuthProvider.html)

Config key:
```text
http-digest-auth
```

This type provides the following service implementations:

- `io.helidon.security.spi.SecurityProvider`

- `io.helidon.security.spi.AuthenticationProvider`

# Configuration options

<table>
<caption>Optional configuration options</caption>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 23%" />
<col style="width: 23%" />
<col style="width: 15%" />
<col style="width: 38%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>key</th>
<th>type</th>
<th>default value</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><code>algorithm</code></p></td>
<td><p>Algorithm (MD5)</p></td>
<td><p><code>MD5</code></p></td>
<td><p>Digest algorithm to use.</p>
<p>Allowed values:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><code>MD5</code>: MD5 algorithm.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>nonce-timeout-millis</code></p></td>
<td><p>long</p></td>
<td><p><code>86400000</code></p></td>
<td><p>How long will the nonce value be valid.
When timed-out, browser will re-request username/password.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>optional</code></p></td>
<td><p>boolean</p></td>
<td><p><code>false</code></p></td>
<td><p>Whether authentication is required. By
default, request will fail if the authentication cannot be verified. If
set to false, request will process and this provider will
abstain.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>principal-type</code></p></td>
<td><p>SubjectType (USER, SERVICE)</p></td>
<td><p><code>USER</code></p></td>
<td><p>Principal type this provider extracts
(and also propagates).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>qop</code></p></td>
<td><p>Qop (NONE, AUTH)</p></td>
<td><p><code>NONE</code></p></td>
<td><p>Only <code>AUTH</code> supported. If
left empty, uses the legacy approach (older RFC version).
<code>AUTH-INT</code> is not supported.</p>
<p>Allowed values:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><code>NONE</code>: Legacy approach - used internally to parse
headers. Do not use this option when building provider. If you want to
support only legacy RFC, please use
HttpDigestAuthProvider.Builder.noDigestQop(). Only AUTH is supported, as
auth-int requires access to message body.</p></li>
<li><p><code>AUTH</code>: QOP "auth" - stands for
"authentication".</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>realm</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td><p><code>Helidon</code></p></td>
<td><p>Set the realm to use when challenging
users.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>server-secret</code></p></td>
<td><p>string</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>The nonce is encrypted using this
secret - to make sure the nonce we get back was generated by us and to
make sure we can safely time-out nonce values. This secret must be the
same for all service instances (or all services that want to share the
same authentication). Defaults to a random password - e.g. if deployed
to multiple servers, the authentication WILL NOT WORK. You MUST provide
your own password to work in a distributed environment with non-sticky
load balancing.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>users</code></p></td>
<td><p><a href="../config/io_helidon_security_providers_httpauth_ConfigUserStore_ConfigUser.md">ConfigUser[]</a></p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Set user store to obtain passwords and
roles based on logins.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
